[239. Sliding Window Maximum](https://leetcode.com/problems/sliding-window-maximum/)

This was my first hard problem. I had an idea to just loop through the list and get the max of whatever set of numbers in the window. I didn't think this would be optimal so I took a look at the hints and learned what a deque is. A deque is a queue that can be pushed or popped at either end. So then I thought to just add `k` values to the queue and get the max. 

While this solution works for small data sets, it's `O(n^2)`. The solution works by using the deque to store the index of the largest in the window. Given the input `nums = [1,3,-1,-3,5,3,6,7]` the iterations look something like this:

- `i = 0; d = []; n = 1` The deque is empty so `0` is appended\
- `i = 1; d = [0]; n = 3` It checks `nums[d[-1]] < n` or `1 < 3`. This is true so `0` is popped from `d` and `1` is added. This is the key to the solution.\
- `i = 2; d = [1]; n = -1` `3 < -1` is false so `2` is appended to `d`. At this point, we have seen the values in the first window. `d[0]` contains the largest value in the window so it an be added to the solution.
- `i = 3; d = [1, 2]; n = -3` The window has moved up but our largest value is still at index `1` so again we append `nums[d[0]] = 3` to our solution.\
- `i = 4; d = [1, 2, 3]; n = 5` Here `nums[d[-1]] = -3 < 5` so we loop until `nums[d[-1]] < 5`. This leaves us with `d = []`. `4` is appended to `d` and we append `d[0] = 5` to our solution.\
- `i = 5; d = [4]; n = 3` `5` is appended to `d` and we append `d[0]` to our solution.\
- `i = 6; d = [4, 5]; n = 6` Again `nums[d[-1]] = 3 < 6`; we end with `d = []`. `6` is appended to `d` and we add `d[0]` to our solution
- `i = 7; d = [6]; n = 7` Again `nums[d[-1]] = 6 < 7`; we end with `d = []`. `7` is appended to `d` and we take `d[0]` for our solution. 

This soulution works because `d[0]` always contians the largest number in our window. Every loop check `d[0]` to ensure it is within the window, and checks if the newest value is greater than `d[-1]`. If it is the case, all smaller values are removed. This ensures that the largest value in the window is at `d[0]`. Smaller values are appended for when `d[0]` must be removed. Say `d` contained the indices for `[6, 4, 1]` and our incoming value was `5`. Removing all smaller values we get `[6, 5]`. `6` would be out of our window which leaves us with `[5]`. `4` and `1` would be in the same window as `5` but since they aren't `>= 5` they can be removed.